# Kaggle_Competition_Materials README
This is a README for the Kaggle_Competition_Materials Folder of 6thManProject. In this README we will provide an outline of what each of the files in this section contains, how they should be used, and whether or not a Kaggle Competition Participant Would Have Access to them. 

## Available CSV's Folder

This folder contains all of the CSV's that the Kaggle Partipant has at their disposal for the creation of their model, so naturally the participant will be able to access them. The Kaggler's Guide provides a great description as to what these files contain, and how the participant should use them. Additionally, the 'Benchmark Solution Example' provides a great example of these CSV's in action. 

The Files in this folder can be generated by running the generate_all_csvs() function that is found in Kaggle_Comp.py. This can be run in the terminal or the base playground.ipynb when you are in the base of the repository. 

## Hidden CSV Folder

This folder contains the solutions.csv that will be used for determining the Mean Absolute Error of the Participants model. This will not be available to the Kaggle Competition Participant. The 'Benchmark Solution Example' uses this csv to calculate the MAE of the model created by the participant in that example. 

The File in this folder can be generated by running the generate_all_csvs() function that is found in Kaggle_Comp.py. This can be run in the terminal or the base playground.ipynb when you are in the base of the repository. 


## Benchmark Solution Example.ipynb

This notebook, apart from the last two cells, will be available to the Kaggle Competition Participant when it is submitted to Kaggle. This notebook walks the participant through the steps of loading in the Available CSV's, splitting them into training/test sets, and evaluating different models based on MAE. Once the models have been evaluated, the notebook also shows the participant how they could generate and format their final submisison. 

The last two cells of the notebook show how the solutions.csv will be used to evaluate the participants submission, and also shows how we determined the benchmark MAE of .66. 

## Kaggle_Comp.py 

This notebook contains the functions that were necessary to generate the CSVs found in the Available CSV's folder and Hidden CSV folder. In order for these functions to be run, sixth_men_season_stats.csv must be in the data folder of the base repository (as it is currently). It will not be provided to the Kaggle Competition Participant.

### Functions:

generate_all_csvs(): The main function of this file is the generate_all_csvs() function, which can be run in the terminal or base playground.ipynb, and generates/saves all of the CSV's found in both the Available CSVs folder and the Hidden CSV folder. This function runs each of the other functions within this file in succession leading to the final result. 

create_player_ids(csv_location): Given the csv location of sixth_men_season_stat.csv as an input, this function downloads this csv and given each row a random player Id. 

train_test_csvs(df): Given the CSV generate from the above function, this function splits the data into a training set and a test set, then further splits the test set into test inputs and the solutions. It returns in order the train_df, test_df, and solution_df. 

generate_example_submission(solution_df): This function uses the solution_df generated above to create and return a randomized example submission dataframe. 

save_csvs(train_df, test_df, solution_df, example_df): This function saves train.csv, test,csv, solutions.csv, and example_submission.csv in their respective locaitons. 

## Kagglers_Guide.md

This is the guide that will be provided to the Kaggle Competition Participant, and introduces the concept of the competition to them. Included in this guide is an introducion, an explanation of the availible CSV's, a data dicitonary, a description of how the Kaggler can participate, and a short explaination of how the submission will be evaluated. 




